Client swap (#35)
ObolNetwork/obol-gitbook: advanced-and-troubleshooting/advanced/client-swap.md

---
sidebar_position: 7
description: Client swap
---

# Client swap

If you are using CDVN, the default stack is:

| Execution layer | Consensus layer | Distributed validator | Validator client | MEV       |
| --------------- | --------------- | --------------------- | ---------------- | --------- |
| Geth            | Lighthouse      | Charon                | Lodestar         | MEV boost |

However, the more users there are of CDVN, the more centralisation this creates.
Since v1.6, CDVN provides the option for swapping clinets in the stack.

Currently supported clients are:

| Execution layer | Consensus layer | Distributed validator | Validator client | MEV          |
| --------------- | --------------- | --------------------- | ---------------- | ------------ |
| Nethermind.     | Lighthouse      | Charon                | Lodestar         | MEV boost    |
|                 | Grandine        |                       | Nimbus           | Commit boost |

> For support between different combinations, refer to Charon's compatibility matrix, found under release notes for each release.

Author: I'm not sure, I have to check. If there is, it wasn't me that is updating it...

> For support between different combinations, refer to Charon's compatibility matrix, found under release notes for each release.

Author: Added

> ## Swapping clients in an already running cluster
> 
> To achieve this, the currently existing `.env` file has to be replaced with the new `.env` file introduced in v1.6.
> 
> 1. Copy the new `.env.sample.<NETWORK>` file to `.env`. Make sure custom environment variables are not lost in the process.
> 
> > [!IMPORTANT]
> > Some environment variables were renamed in order to be client-agnostic. If you have set those environment variables to custom values, after migrating to the multi client setup, use the new ones. They serve the same purpose.
> >
> > | Old                           | New                              |
> > |-------------------------------|--------------------------------- |
> > | NETHERMIND_PORT_P2P           | EL_PORT_P2P                      |
> > | NETHERMIND_IP_HTTP            | EL_IP_HTTP                       |
> > | NETHERMIND_PORT_HTTP          | EL_PORT_HTTP                     |
> > | NETHERMIND_IP_ENGINE          | EL_IP_ENGINE                     |
> > | NETHERMIND_PORT_ENGINE        | EL_PORT_ENGINE                   |
> > | LIGHTHOUSE_PORT_P2P           | CL_PORT_P2P                      |
> > | LODESTAR_PORT_METRICS         | VC_PORT_METRICS                  |
> > | MEVBOOST_TIMEOUT_GETHEADER    | MEV_TIMEOUT_GETHEADER            |
> > | MEVBOOST_TIMEOUT_GETPAYLOAD   | MEV_TIMEOUT_GETPAYLOAD           |
> > | MEVBOOST_TIMEOUT_REGVAL       | MEV_TIMEOUT_REGVAL               |
> > | MEVBOOST_RELAYS               | MEV_RELAYS                       |
> > | NETHERMIND_PROMTAIL_MONITORED | EL_NETHERMIND_PROMTAIL_MONITORED |
> > | LIGHTHOUSE_PROMTAIL_MONITORED | CL_LIGHTHOUSE_PROMTAIL_MONITORED |
> > | LODESTAR_PROMTAIL_MONITORED   | VC_LODESTAR_PROMTAIL_MONITORED   |
> > | MEV_BOOST_PROMTAIL_MONITORED  | MEV_MEV_BOOST_PROMTAIL_MONITORED |
> 
> 2. Stop the existing cluster that uses the old environment file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Swapping clients in an already running cluster

> [!IMPORTANT]
> For ([L](https://github.com/obolNetwork/lido-charon-distributed-validator-node))[CDVN](https://github.com/obolNetwork/charon-distributed-validator-node) users who created their `.env` file before the release of charon `v1.6.0`, there are breaking changes between then and the current multi-client `.env` file setup.
>
> The minimal addition to an older version of the `.env` file compatible with the current versions of the repos is to add `COMPOSE_PROFILES=el_nethermind,cl_lighthouse,dv_charon,vc_lodestar,mev_mevboost` to your existing `.env` file.
>
> Some environment variables were renamed in order to be client-agnostic. **If you had set these environment variables to custom values in your `.env`, you need to set the new variables to your custom values**. They serve the same purpose.
>
> | Old                           | New                              |
> |-------------------------------|--------------------------------- |
> | NETHERMIND_PORT_P2P           | EL_PORT_P2P                      |
> | NETHERMIND_IP_HTTP            | EL_IP_HTTP                       |
> | NETHERMIND_PORT_HTTP          | EL_PORT_HTTP                     |
> | NETHERMIND_IP_ENGINE          | EL_IP_ENGINE                     |
> | NETHERMIND_PORT_ENGINE        | EL_PORT_ENGINE                   |
> | LIGHTHOUSE_PORT_P2P           | CL_PORT_P2P                      |
> | LODESTAR_PORT_METRICS         | VC_PORT_METRICS                  |
> | MEVBOOST_TIMEOUT_GETHEADER    | MEV_TIMEOUT_GETHEADER            |
> | MEVBOOST_TIMEOUT_GETPAYLOAD   | MEV_TIMEOUT_GETPAYLOAD           |
> | MEVBOOST_TIMEOUT_REGVAL       | MEV_TIMEOUT_REGVAL               |
> | MEVBOOST_RELAYS               | MEV_RELAYS                       |
> | NETHERMIND_PROMTAIL_MONITORED | EL_NETHERMIND_PROMTAIL_MONITORED |
> | LIGHTHOUSE_PROMTAIL_MONITORED | CL_LIGHTHOUSE_PROMTAIL_MONITORED |
> | LODESTAR_PROMTAIL_MONITORED   | VC_LODESTAR_PROMTAIL_MONITORED   |
> | MEV_BOOST_PROMTAIL_MONITORED  | MEV_MEV_BOOST_PROMTAIL_MONITORED |

1. Copy the new `.env.sample.<NETWORK>` file to `.env`.
2. Comment or uncomment your preferred Execution, Consensus, Validator, and MEV clients and save the file. 
3. Stop the existing cluster that uses the old environment file.
```

pushing the old env var message above the list, under the assumption that future users of this guide will be getting 'the new way' by the time they swap. 

also this is the github way to do hints, idk if its the gitbook way which is like `{% hint %} {% endhint %}`, but not going to describe that in this diff

```sh
docker compose --profile "" down
```

> 3. Start the new cluster that will use the new environment file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Start the node again to pick up the changes to the `.env` file.
```

```sh
docker compose up -d
```

> At this stage, your CDVN is set to easily swap components of its stack, but is running the same stack currently.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your node should start up with the new clients.
```
